title: Linux vs Windows for Project Maputo
slug: linux-vs-windows-for-project-maputo
timestamp: 1 May 2010
categories: computers linux
author: Luis Pedro Coelho <luis@beiraproject.org>
---

One of our projects in Mozambique will be to set up computer labs for several
of the groups there. One of the questions is what operating system to use.

I haven’t personally run Windows since Windows 98 was their newest operating
system (I did have an dual-booting Linux/XP laptop before you could buy linux
laptops, but I rarely used it, this was 6 years ago). I had an Apple laptop for
a while, but now all my computers are Linux. Still, I am trying to keep an open
mind.

I do know that in these environments it’s not sufficient to just leave them a
bunch of computers as they will quickly become unusable with viruses and
spamware as kids install all sorts of things to get games to work (or to see
pictures of unclad women). I know this from seeing it in other countries and
from talking to our partners in Mozambique. Some `intellectual tabloids
<http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/03/24/africas_cyber_wmd>`__ (a term
I just coined) have even pointed out how this is a problem for the wider
internet.

The argument is thus for a Linux based solution where the typical user is
allowed to run firefox (and only firefox) and more advanced users can run
openoffice. By logging in remotely, a more advanced expert can do maintenance
up to the point where the machines stop connecting to the internet.

I can’t probably give you an answer now as to what we will use, but if I found
a good Linux distribution for this environment, it would make things much
easier.

(And, no, Apple is not under consideration; the machines are too expensive).


