title: Menu for tonight
slug: menu-for-tonight
timestamp: 29 May 2010 09:00
categories: fundraiser food pittsburgh
author: Luis Pedro Coelho <luis@beiraproject.org>
---
If the menu makes you really want to come to our `party
<http://beiraproject.org/fr>`_, feel free to `just show up
<'http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=6823+Thomas+Blvd,+Apt+1+Pittsburgh+PA&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=30.875284,58.535156&ie=UTF8&hq=&hnear=6823+Thomas+Blvd+%231,+Pittsburgh,+Allegheny,+Pennsylvania+15208&ll=40.455291,-79.907427&spn=0.007233,0.014291&z=16&iwloc=A'>`__.

See you later!

Appetizers
----------

**Andalucian gazpacho**. Cold tomato soup with garlic, onions, and peppers.

**Seviche**. Lime marinated tilapia with cilantro and bell peppers.

**_Paulista_ shrimp**. Pan-fried shrimp with garlic and jalapeños. (Paulista: from the city of São Paulo, Brazil).

**Vietnamese-style Spring Rolls** with shrimp, Korean-style barbecued beef, or vegetarian

**Peanuts** on the porch

**Cheese and crackers** a donation from _WholeFoods_

Main Course
-----------

**Chicken curry** with coconut milk, banana, and peanuts. Served with cinnamon seasoned Basmati.

**Fruit curry** (vegetarian option). No peanuts.

**Chickpea cous-cous** (vegetarian).

Desert
------

**Spicy mango soup** with anise, served cold with Turkish yogurt

**Green tea *Moschi* ice-cream**

**Cookies** a donation from Prantl’s Bakery (on Walnut St).

**Strawberry Alentejan gazpacho** with biscuit

**Chocolate brownies** with raspberry

Cocktails
---------

**Caipirinha**. Cachaça (Brazilian Rum-like spirit) with crushed limes.

**Morangoska**. Vodka with crushed strawberries.

**Wine & beer**

