title: In Mangunde. Back to Internet
slug: in-mangunge-back-to-internet
timestamp: 7 July 2010 09:00
categories: kufunana esmabama mangunde
author: Luis Pedro Coelho <luis@beiraproject.org>
---

Last week, for over a week, there was no internet in Beira. There was no
internet in this whole area of the country. Phones worked, sometimes. It seems
charming, but banks suffered too. It took us 3 days to be able to exchange
traveller’s checks. We heard that last time this happened, people weren’t even
able to get their paychecks for weeks.

We don’t know if it is solved by now. We are in Mangunde, another of Esmabama’s
missions, and we have a satellite link here. It is slow, deadly slow (so, no we
won’t be able to upload any pictures). But it works. So we were able to read
all of our email (i.e., read our spam) and will start posting some updates when
we have a bit of free time.

We did the show with Kufunana. It was a very rewarding experience for both us
and, hopefully, them. We started with a few scattered ideas and, two weeks
later, we were opening. This is due to the quality of the actors who have a lot
of experience improvising. In the end, we had a great show. **They** had a
great show. We presented it in Beira, but Kufunana was already planning to
present it in more rural areas (which is where they do most of their work).

The show, called *The Network*, talks about intersecting sexual exchanges, for
love (sometimes) and for money (mostly), having protected and unprotected sex.
It was based on *La Ronde*, by Schnitzler, but adapted to Mozambican reality
with the addition of a Greek chorus of drunk men. The show itself is mostly
theatrical in form, but we have some dance scenes, with both traditional
African rhythms and Western style pop music making an appearance.

We also managed to raise $500 for Kufunana with Kickstarter. Actually, since we
were without internet, we didn’t even know whether we had got to our goal or
not! It was only after the fact that we were able to check up on it. Thank you!


