title: About
url: about
categories:
..

The Beira Project will provide HIV-related non-profits in Mozambique with
tools, physical and technical, to do their job better, to reach more people
better.

Rita and Luis, two graduate students in Pittsburgh (in theatre and
computational biology), will be working with two local Mozambican organisations
in Beira (Mozambiqueâ€™s 2nd largest city) supporting them in their work.

One of our partners, Kufunana, uses theatre of the oppressed in markets and
schools to raise awareness on the necessity of HIV screening (even though HIV
rates exceed 15%, many people still act as if they were immune). Beira Project
will help Kufunana become visible on the web by bringing them computer
hardware, facilitating internet access, and teaching them how to reach out to
their other international partners. On the artistic front, Rita and Luis are
looking forward to exchange theatre experiences and approaches, and to be able
to develop new material together.

EsMaBaMa, our other colaborator, runs schools and HIV/AIDS clinics of the
province of Sofala (which includes the city of Beira and the rural regions
around it). Besides their physical needs, they need an integrated software
platform for managing their patients. Currently, the solutions they use,
adapted from the western world, are not well suited to their conditions. An
alternative solution must be robust to network quality (all possible network
connections can be found in Mozambique, from no connection, to very high speed
mobile internet, through semi-reliable SMS coverage), it must be open source
(in the past, using a closed source solution has led to stagnation after the
funds to pay for support/updates ran out as well as to lack of integration with
other systems). The developing world is under-resourced in physical
infrastructure, but, for there is no reason why its software should lag behind
the state of the art.

With EsMaBaMa Rita will also train teachers to use theatre games as classroom
tools in the prevention of HIV.


